901 e| 902 a
2| 2093 | A'isha reported that the Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) recited loudly in the eclipse prayer, and he observed four rak'ahs in the form of two rak'ahs and four prostrations. Zuhri said:Kathir b. 'Abbas narrated on the authority of Ibn 'Abbas that the Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) observed four rak'ahs and four prostrations in two rak'ahs 
904 a| b
2| 2100 | Jabir b. 'Abdullah reported:The sun eclipsed on one extremely hot day during the lifetime of the Messenger of Allah (ﷺ). The Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) prayed along with his Companions. He prolonged his qiyam (standing posture in prayer) till they (his Companions) began to fall down. He then observed a long ruku'. He raised his head (and stood up for long) and then observed a long ruku'. He then raised (his head and stood up) for a long time and then made two prostrations. He then stood up and did like this and thus he observed four ruku's and four prostrations (in two rak'ahs) and then said: All these things were brought to me in which you will be made to enter. Paradise was brought to me till (I was so close to it) that if I (had intended) to pluck a bunch (of grapes) out of it. I would have got it, or he (the Holy Prophet) said: I intended to get a bunch (out of that) but my hand could not reach it. Hell was also brought to me and I saw in it a woman belonging to the tribe of Israel who was tormented for a cat whom she had tied, but did not give it food nor set it free to eat the creatures of the earth; and I saw Abu Thumama 'Amr b. Malik who was dragging his intestines in Hell. They (the Arabs) used to say that the sun and the moon do not eclipse but on the death of some great person; but (in reality) both these (the sun and the moon) are among the signs of Allah which are shown to you; so when there is an eclipse, observe prayer till it (the sun or the moon) brightens. This hadith has been narrated by Hisham with the same chain of transmitters except this" I saw a dark woman with a tail stature and loud voice," but he made no mention of" from among Bani Israel 
905 b| c
2| 2104 | Asma' said:I came to 'A'isha when the people were standing (in prayer) and she was also praying. I said: What is this excitement of the people for? And the rest of the hadith was narrated like one, (narrated above). 'Urwa said: Do not say Kasafat-ush-Shamsu, but say Khasafat-ush-Shamsu 
961 a| 961 b
2| 2225 | It is narrated on the authority of Ibn Abu Laila that while Qais b. Sa'd and Sahl b. Hunaif were both in Qadislyya a bier passed by them and they both stood up. They were told that it was the bier of one of the people of the land (non-Muslim). They said that a bier passed before the Prophet (ﷺ) and he stood up. He was told that he (the dead man) was a Jew. Upon this he remarked:Was he not a human being or did he not have a soul? And in the hadith narrated by 'Amr b. Murra with the same chain of transmitters, (the words) are:" There passed a bier before us 
963 a| 963 b
2| 2232 | Jubair b. Nufair says:I heard it from 'Auf b. Malik that the Prophet (ﷺ) said prayer on the dead body, and I remembered his prayer:" O Allah! forgive him, have mercy upon him, give him peace and absolve him. Receive him with honour and make his grave spacious; wash him with water, snow and hail. Cleanse him from faults as Thou wouldst cleanse a white garment from impurity. Requite him with an abode more excellent than his abode, with a family better than his family, and with a mate better than his mate. Admit him to the Garden, and protect him from the torment of the grave and the torment of the Fire." ('Auf bin Malik) said: I earnestly desired that I were this dead body 
969 a| 969 b
2| 2243 | Abu'l-Hayyaj al-Asadi told that 'Ali (b. Abu Talib) said to him:Should I not send you on the same mission as Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) sent me? Do not leave an image without obliterating it, or a high grave without levelling It. This hadith has been reported by Habib with the same chain of transmitters and he said: (Do not leave) a picture without obliterating it 
1206 b|c
2| 2892 | Ibn Abbas (Allah be pleased with them) reported:While a person was standing in 'Arafat with the Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) he fell down from his camel and broke his neck. This was mentioned to the Messenger of Allah (ﷺ), whereupon he said: Bathe him with water mixed with the leaves of the lote tree and shroud him in two (pieces of) cloth and neither perfume him nor cover his head; (Ayyub said) for Allah would raise him on the Day of Resurrection in the state of pronouncing Talbiya. ('Amr. however, said): Verily Allah would raise him on the Day of Resurrection pronouncing Talbiya. Sa'id b. Jubair narrated this hadith on the authority of Ibn 'Abbas (Allah be pleased with them) that a person was standing with the Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) as he was in the state of Ihram. The rest of the hadith is the same 
1226 g|h
2| 2978 | Imran b. Husain (Allah be pleased with him) reported:We performed Tamattu' (Hajj and 'Umra combining together) in the company of Allah's Messenger (ﷺ), and nothing was revealed in the Qur'an (concerning the abrogation of this practice), and whatever a person (Hadhrat 'Umar) said was his personal opinion. 'Imran b. Husain narrated this hadith (in these words also):" Allah's Apostle (ﷺ) performed Hajj Tamattu' and we also performed it along with him 
1251 a|b
2| 3028 | Anas (Allah be pleased with him) reported:I heard Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) pronouncing Talbiya for both simultaneously, Talbiya for 'Umra and Hajj. Talbiya for Uwra and Hajj (he performed both Hajj and Umra as a Qarin). In another version words are: I heard Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) pronouncing Talbiya for Umra and Hajj (simultaneously) 
1283 b| c
2| 3092 | Abd al-Rahman b. Yazid reported that 'Abdullah (b. Mas'ud) pronounced Talbiya as he returned from the gathering of the people (at Muzdalifa). It was said:He might be a Bedouin (not knowing correctly the rituals of Hajj and, therefore, pronouncing Talbia at this stage), whereupon Abdullah said: Hive the people forgotten (this Sunnah of the Holy Prophet) or have they gone astray? I heard him, upon whom Sibrah al-Baqara was revealed, pronouncing Talbiya at the very place 
1287 a| b
2| 3108 | Abdullah b. Yazid al-Khatmi reported on the authority of Abu Ayyub (Allah be pleased with him) that he prayed the sunset and 'Isha' prayers (together) at Muzdalifa in the company of Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) on the occasion of the Farewell Pilgrimage 
1479 e| 1475 b
2| 3695 | Ibn 'Abbas (Allah be pleased with them) reported. I had always been anxious to ask 'Umar (Allah be pleased with him) about the two ladies amongst the wives of Allah's Prophet (may peace be upon Lim) about whom Allah, the Exalted, said:" If you both turn in repentance to Allah, then indeed your hearts are inclined (to this)" (Ixvi. 4), until 'Umar (Allah be pleased with him) set out for Hajj and I also went along with him. And as we were going along a path, 'Umar (Allah be pleased with hiyn) went aside and I also went aside with him with a jug (of water). He answered the call of nature, and then came to me and I poured water over his hands and he performed ablution I said: Commander of the Faithful, who are the two ladies amongst the wives of Allah's Prophet (ﷺ) about whom Allah, the Exalted and Majestic, said: 'If you both turn to Allah in repentance, then indeed your heart are inclined to it"? 'Umar (Allah he pleased with him) said: How strange is it for you, Ibn 'Abbas! (Zuhri said: By Allah, he disliked what he asked about, but did not keep it a secret.) He ('Umar) said: They are Hafsa and 'A'isha; and he then began to narrate the hadith and said: We were such people among the Quraish who dominated women, and as we reached Medina we found there people who were dominated by their women, and our women began to learn (the habits) of their women. He further said: And my house was situated in the suburb of Aledina in the tribe of Banu Umayya b. Zaid. One day I became angry with my wife and she retorted upon me. I did not like that she should retort upon me. She said: You disapprove of my retorting upon you By Allah, the wives of Allah's Apostle (ﷺ) retort upon him, and one of them detaches herself from him for the day until the night. So I ('Umar) went out and visited Hafsa and said: Do you retort upon Allah's Messenger (ﷺ)? She said: Yes. I said; Does any one of you detach herself from him from the day to the night? She said: Yes. He said: She who did like it amongst you in fact failed and incurred loss. Does everyone amongst you not fear the wrath of Allah upon her due to the wrath of His Messenger (ﷺ), and (as a result thereof) she may perish? So do not retort upon Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) and do not ask him for anything, but ask me that which you desire, (and the frank behaviour) of your companion may not mislead you, if she is more graceful and is dearer to Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) than you (meaning 'A'isha) (Allah be pleased with her). He (Hadrat 'Umar further) said: I had a compalaion from the Ansar and, we used to remain in the company of the Messenger (ﷺ) turn by turn. He remained there for a day while I remained there on the other day, and he brought me the news about the revelation and other (matter), and I brought him (the news) like this. And we discussed that the Ghassanids were shoeing the horses in order to attack us. Id y companion once attended (the Apostle). and then came to me at night and knocked at my door and called me, and I came out to him, and he said: A matter of great importance has happened. I said: What is that? Have the Ghassanids come? He said: No, but even more serious and more significant than that: the Prophet (ﷺ) has divorced his wives. I said: Hafsa has failed and has incurred loss. and I feared that it would happen. When it was dawn I observed the dawn prayer and dressed myself, and then came there (in the house of the Holy Prophet) and visited Hafsa, and she was weeping. I said: Has Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) divorced you (all)? She said: I do not know. He has, however, separated himself in his attic. I came to a black servant and said to him: Seek permission for 'Umar. He went in and then came to me and said: I made mention of you to him, but he kept quiet. I then went to the pulpit and sat there, and there was a group of people sitting by it and some of then were weeping. I sat there for some time, until I was overpowered (by that very idea) which was in my mind. I then came back to the boy and said to him: Seek permission for Umar. He went in and came to me and said: I made mention of you to him but he kept quiet. I was about to turn back when the boy called me and said: Go in; permission has been granted to you. I went in and greeted Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) and he was reclining against the couch of mat and it had left its marks upon his side. I said: Messenger of Allah, have you divorced your wives? He raised his head towards me and said: No. I said: Allah is the Greatest. Messenger of Allah, I wish if you had seen how we the people of Quraish had domination over women but when we came to Medina we found people whom their women dominated. So our women began to learn from their women. One dily I became angry with my wife and she began to retort upon me. I did not approve that she should retort upon me. She said: You do not like that I should retort upon you, but, by Allah. the wives of Allah's Apostle (ﷺ) retort upon him and any one of them separates herself from him for a day until night. I said: He who did that amongst them in fact failed and incurred loss. Does any of them feel sate from the wrath of Allahupon her due to the wrath of Allah's Messenger (ﷺ), and she has certainly perished. Allah's Messtnger (ﷺ) smiled, I said: Messenger of Allah, I visited Hafsa and said: (The behaviour) of your companion ('A'isha) may not mislead you, If she is more graceful than you and is dearer to Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) than you. Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) smiled for the second time. I said: Allah's Messenger, way I talk to you about agreeable things? He said: Yes. I sat down and lifted my head (to see things) in the house and, by Allah, I did not see anything significant besides three hides. I said: Messenger of Allah, supplicate the Lord that He should make (life) prosperous for your Ummah as He has made plentiful for the people of Persia and Rome (in spite of the fact) that they do no, worship Allah, the Exalted and Majestic, whereupon he (Allah's Messenger) sat up an I then said: Ibn Khattab, do you doubt that they are a nation whom their nice things have been given immediately in the life of this world. I said: Allah's Messenger! seek pardon for me. And he (Allah's Messenger) had taken an oath that he would not visit them for a month due to extreme annoyance with them until Allah showed His displeasure to him (Allah's Messenger). Zuhri said: 'Urwa informed me that 'A'Isha (Allah be pleased with her) said: When twenty-nine nights were over, Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) visited me, and he began (his visit) with me. I said: Messenger of Allah, you had taken an oath that you would not visit us for a month, while you have visited after I have counted only twenty-nine (nights). Thereupon he said: The month may also be of twenty-nine (days). He then said: 'A'isha, I am going to talk to you about a matter, and you should not be hasty in it (and do not give your final decision) until you have consulted your parents. He then recited this verse to me:" O Prophet, say to your wives" till he reached" mighty reward" (xxxiii. 28). 'A'isha (Allah be pleased with her) said: By Allah, he knew that my parents would not allow me to separate from him. I said: Is there any need to consult my parents in this matter? I in fact choose Allah and His Messenger (ﷺ) and the abode in the Hereafter. Ma'mar said: Ayyub reported to me that 'A'isha said: Don't inform your wives that I have chosen you, whereupon Allah's Apostle (ﷺ) said: Verily Allah has sent me as a conveyer of message, and He has not sent me as a source of hardship (to others). Qatada said:" Saghat qulubukum" means" Your hearts have inclined 
1486 a| 1487 a| 1488 a| 1489
4| 3725 | Zainab (bint Abu Salama) (Allah be pleased with her) reported:I went to Umm Habiba, the wife of Allah's Apostle (ﷺ), when her father Abu Sufyan had died. Umm Habiba sent for a perfume having yellowness in it or something else like it, and she applied it to a girl and then rubbed it on her cheeks and then said: By Allah, I need no perfume but for the fact that I heard Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) say on the pulpit:" It is not permissible for a woman believing in Allah and the Hereafter to mourn for the dead beyond three days, but (in case of the death) of the husband it is permissible for four months and ten days." Zainab said: I then visited Zainab hint Jahsh (Allah be pleased with her) when her brother died and she sent for perfume and applied it and then said: By Allah, I don't feel any need for the perfume but that I heard Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) say on the pulpit:" It is not permissible for a woman believing in Allah and the Hereafbler to mourn the dead beyond three days except in case of her husband (for whom she can mourn) for four months and ten days." Zainab (Allah be pleased with her) said: I heard my mother Umm Salama (Allah be pleased with her) as saying: A woman came to Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) and said: Allah's Messenger. I have a daughter whose husband has died and there has developed some trouble in her eye; should we apply collyrium to it? Thereupon Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) said: No (repeating it twice or thrice, saying only, NO" all the time). Then he said: It is only four mouths and ten days, whereas in the preIslamic period none of you threw away the dung until one year had passed. Humaid said: I said to Zainab: What is this throwing of dung until a year is passed? Zainab said: When the husband of a woman died, she went into a hut and put on her worst clothes, and did not apply perfume or something like it until a year was over. Then an animal like a donkey, or a goat, or a bird was brought to her and she rubbed her hand over it, and it so happened that one on which she rubbed her hand died. She then came out of her house and she was given dung and she threw it and then she made use of anything like perfume or something else as she liked 
1487| 1488 b
2| 3730 | This hadith was narrated by Zainab from her mother and from Zainab, the wife of Allah's Apostle (ﷺ), or from some other lady from among the wives of the Prophet (ﷺ) 
1508 b| 1508 c
2| 3792 | Abu Huraira (Allah be pleased with him) reported Allah's Apostle (ﷺ) as saying:He who took the freed slave as his ally without the consent of his previous master, there is upon him the curse of Allah and that of His angels and that of the whole mankind, and there will not be accepted from him his obligatory acts or supercrogatory acts on the Day of Resurrection. This hadith is narrated through the same chain of transmitters, but with a slight change of words 
1644 b| c
2| 4251 | This hadith has been narrated on the authority of 'Uqba b. Amir Juhani. but in this no mention has been made of" barefoot 
1722 g| h
2| 4504 | Zaid b. Khalid al-Juhani reported that Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) was asked about picking up of stray things, whereupon he said:Make announcement of that for one year, but if it is not recognised (by the owner), then recognise its big and strap, then eat it; and if its owner comes, then give that to him. This hadith has been narrated on the authority of Al-Dahhak b. Uthman with the same chain of transmitters but with a slight variation of words 
1731 a| b
2| 4521 | It has been reported from Sulaiman b. Buraida through his father that when the Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) appointed anyone as leader of an army or detachment he would especially exhort him to fear Allah and to be good to the Muslims who were with him. He would say:Fight in the name of Allah and in the way of Allah. Fight against those who disbelieve in Allah. Make a holy war, do not embezzle the spoils; do not break your pledge; and do not mutilate (the dead) bodies; do not kill the children. When you meet your enemies who are polytheists, invite them to three courses of action. If they respond to any one of these, you also accept it and withhold yourself from doing them any harm. Invite them to (accept) Islam; if they respond to you, accept it from them and desist from fighting against them. Then invite them to migrate from their lands to the land of the Muhajireen and inform them that, if they do so, they shall have all the privileges and obligations of the Muhajireen. If they refuse to migrate, tell them that they will have the status of Bedouin Muslims and will be subjected to the Commands of Allah like other Muslims, but they will not get any share from the spoils of war or Fai' except when they actually fight with the Muslims (against the disbelievers). If they refuse to accept Islam, demand from them the Jizya. If they agree to pay, accept it from them and hold off your hands. If they refuse to pay the tax, seek Allah's help and fight them. When you lay siege to a fort and the besieged appeal to you for protection in the name of Allah and His Prophet, do not accord to them the guarantee of Allah and His Prophet, but accord to them your own guarantee and the guarantee of your companions for it is a lesser sin that the security given by you or your companions be disregarded than that the security granted in the name of Allah and His Prophet be violated. When you besiege a fort and the besieged want you to let them out in accordance with Allah's Command, do not let them come out in accordance with His Command, but do so at your (own) command, for you do not know whether or not you will be able to carry out Allah's behest with regard to them 
1809 a| b
2| 4680 | It has been narrated on the authority of Anas that, on the Day of Hunain. Umm Sulaim took out a dagger she had in her possession. Abiu Talha saw her and said:Messenger of Allah, this is Umm Sulaim. She is holding a dagger. The Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) asked (her): What for are you holding this dagger? She said: I took it up so that I may tear open the belly of a polytheist who comes near me. The Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) began to smile (at these words). She said: Messenger of Allah, kill all those people-other than us-whom thou hast declared to be free (on the day of the Conquest of Mecca). (They embraced Islam because) they were defeated at your hands (and as such their Islam is not dependable). The Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) said: Umm Sulaim. God is sufficient (against the mischief of the polytheists) and He will be kind to us (so you need not carry this dagger) 
1829 b| c
2| 4725 | This tradition has been narrated through more; than one chain of transmitters 
1835 a| b
2| 4747 | It has been narrated on the authority of Abu Huraira that the Holy prophet (ﷺ) said:Whoso obeys me obeys God, and whoso disobeys me disobeys God. Whoso obeys the commander (appointed by me) obeys me, and whoso disobeys the commander disobeys me. The same tradition transmitted by different persons omits the portion: And whose disobeys the commander disobeys me 
1845 b| c
2| 4780 | This tradition has been narrated on the same authority through a different chain of transmitters. Another version of the tradition narrated on the authority of Shu'ba does not include the words:" He took the Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) aside 
1859 a| b
2| 4819 | It has been narrated on the authority of Sa'id b. Musayyab who said:My father was one of those who swore fealty to the Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) near the tree. When we passed that way next year intending to perform the Hajj, the place of the tree was hidden to us. If you could point out clearly, you would (certainly) be knowing better. It has also been narrated on the authority of Sa'id b. Musayyib who learnt from his father that they were with the Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) in the year of the Tree (i. e. in the year of the fealty of God's pleasure sworn under the tree at Hudaibiya), but next year they forgot the spot of the tree 
1896 b| c
2| 4905 | The above tradition has also been narrated through two different chains of transmitters on the authority of Abu Sa'id Khudri and Yahya, respectively 
1975 c| d
2| 5112 | Thauban, the freed slave of Allah's Messenger (ﷺ), reported:Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) said to me on the occasion of Hajjat-al-Wada' (the Farewell Pilgrimage): Make the flesh usable. So I made it usable (for him) and he ate it constantly until he reached Medina. This hadith has been narrated on the authority of Yabya b. Hamza with the same chain of transmitters, but he did not say: On the occasion of Hajjat-al-Wada 
2106 f| 2107 a
2| 5519 | Abu Talha Ansari reported Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) as saying:Angels do not enter the house in which there is a picture or portraits. I came to 'A'isha and said to her: This is a news that I have received that Allah's Apostle (ﷺ) had said: Angels do not enter the house in which there is a picture or a dog, (and further added) whether she had heard Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) making a mention of it. She said: No (I did not hear this myself), but I narrate to you what I saw him doing. I bear testimony to the fact that he (the Holy Prophet) set out for an expedition. I took a carpet and screened the door with it. When he (the Holy Prophet) came back he saw that carpet and I perceived signs of disapproval on his face. He pulled it until it was torn or it was cut (into pieces) and he said: God has not commanded us to clothe stones and clay. We cut it (the curtain) and prepared two pillowa out of it by stuffing them with the fibre of date-palms and he (the Holy Prophet) did not find fault with it 
2107 b| c
2| 5521 | A'isha reported:We had a curtain with us which had portraits of birds upon it. Whenever a visitor came, he found them in front of him. Thereupon Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) said to me: Change them, for whenever I enter the room) I see them and it brings to my mind (the pleasures) of worldly life. She said: We had with us a sheet which had silk badges upon it and we used to wear it. This hadith has been transmitted on the authority of Ibn Muthanna but with this addition: 'Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) did not command us to tear that 
2109 c| 2110 a
2| 5539 | Muslim b. Subaih reported:I was with Masriuq in the house which had the portrayals of Mary (hadrat Maryan). Thereupon Masriuq said: These are portraits of Kisra. I said: No, these are of Mary. Masruq said: I heard Abdullah b, Mas'ud as saying Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) had said: The most grievously tormented people on the Day of Resurrection would be the painters of pictures. (Muslim said): I read this before Nasr b. 'Ali at-Jahdami and he read it before other narrators, the last one being Ibn Sa'id b Abl at Hasan that a person came to Ibn 'Abbas and said: I am the person who paints pictures; give me a religious verdict about them. He (Ibn 'Abbas) said to him: Come near me (still further). He came near him so much so that he placed his hand upon his head and said: I am going to narrate to yor what I heard from Allah's Messenger (ﷺ). I heard him say: All the painters who make pictures would be in the fire of Hell. The soul will be breathed in every picture prepared by him and it shall punish him in the Hell, and he (Ibn 'Abbas) said: If you have to do it at all, then paint the pictures of trees and lifeless things; and Nasr b. 'Ali confirmed it 
2119 c| d
2| 5556 | Anas reported:We went to Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) as he was in the fold and he was cauterising the animals of the flock and I think (he was cauterising them) on their ears. This hadith has been narrated on the authority of Shu'ba through another chain of transmitters 
2123 b| c
2| 5569 | A'isha reported that a woman from the Ansar married her daughter who had lost her hair because of illness. She came to Allah's Apostle (ﷺ) and said:Her husband wants that false hair should be aaded to her head. Thereupon Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) said: The woman who adds false hair has been cursed. This hadith has been narrated on the authority of Nafi' with the same chain of transmitters but with a slight variation of wording 
2124 a| b
2| 5571 | Ibn Umar reported Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) cursing the woman who added false hair and the woman who asked for tattoos. This hadith has been reported on the authority of Abdullah through another chain of transmitters 
2170 b| c
2| 5669 | This hadith has been narrated on the authority of Hisham with the same chain of transmitters, and the words are:She (Sauda) was a woman who looked to be significant amongst the people (so far as the bulk of her) body was concerned. The rest of the hadith is the same 
287 d| 2214 a
2| 5762 | Umm Qais, daughter of Mihsan, the sister of 'Ukasha b. Mihsan said:I visited Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) along with my son who had not, by that time, been weaned and he urinated over his (clothes). He ordered water to be brought and sprinkled (it) over them. She (further) said: I visited him (Allah's Apostle) along with my son and I had squeezed the swelling in the uvula, whereupon he said: Why do you afflict your children by compressing like this? Use this Indian aloeswood, for it contains seven types of remedies, one among them being a remedy for pleurisy. It is applied through the nose for a swelling of the uvula and poured into the side of the mouth for pleurisy 
2214 b| 287 e
2| 5764 | Umm Qais, daughter of Mihsan, was one of the earlier female emigrants who had pledged allegiance to Allah's Messenger (ﷺ). She was the sister of Ukasha b. Mihsan, one of the posterity of Asad b. Khuzaima. She reported that she came to Allah's messenger (ﷺ) along with her son who had not attained the age of weaning and she had compressed the swelling of his uvula. (Yunus said:She compressed the uvula because she was afraid that there might be swelling of uvula.) Thereupon Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) said: Why do you afflict your children by compressing in this way? You should use Indian aloeswood, for it has seven remedies in it, one of them being the remedy for pleurisy. Ubaidullah reported that she had told that that was the child who had urinated in the lap of Allah's Messenger (ﷺ), and Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) called for water and sprinkled it on his urine, but he did not wash it well 
2233 b| c
2| 5826 | Ibn 'Umar reported:I heard Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) commanding the killing of dogs and the killing of the striped and the short-tailed snakes, for both of them affect the eyesight adversely and cause miscarriage. Zuhri said: We thought of their poison (the pernicious effects of these two). Allah, however, knows best. 'Abdullah b. 'Umar said: I did not spare any snake. I rather killed everyone that I saw. One day as I was pursuing a snake from amongst the snakes of the house, Zaid b. Khattab or Abu Lubaba happened to pass by me and found me pursuing it. He said: 'Abdullah, wait. I said: Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) commanded (us) to kill them, whereupon he said that Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) forbade the killing of the snakes of the houses. This hadith has been narrated on the authority of Zuhri with the same chain of transmitters but with a slight variation of wording 
2255 a| b
2| 5885 | Amr b. Sharid reported his father as saying:One day when I rode behind Allah's Messenger (ﷺ), he said (to me): Do you remember any poetry of Umayya b. Abu Salt. I said: Yes. He said: Then go on. I recited a couplet, and he said: Go on. Then I again recited a couplet and he said: Go on. I recited one hundred couplets (of his poetry). This hadith has been reported on the authority of Sharid through another chain of transmitters but with a slight variation of wording 
2290| 2291 a
2| 5968 | Sahl (b. Sa'd) reported:I heard Allah's Apostle (ﷺ) as saying: I shall go to the Cistern before you and he who comes would drink and he who drinks would never feel thirsty, and there would come to me people whom I would know and who would know me. Then there would be intervention between me and them. Abu Hazim said that Nu'man b. Abu 'Ayyash heard it and I narrated to them this hadith, and said: Is it this that you heard Sahl saying? He said: Yes, and I bear witness to the fact that I heard it from Abu Sa'id Khudri also, but he made this addition that he (the Holy Prophet) would say: They are my followers, and it would be said to him: You do not know what they did after you and I will say to them: Woe to him who changes (his religion) after me 
2292| 2293
2| 5971 | Abdullah b. `Amr al-`As, reported Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) as saying:My Cistern (is as wide and broad that it requires) a month's journey (to go round it) all, and its sides are equal and its water is whiter than silver, and its odour is more fragrant than the fragrance of musk, and its jugs (placed around it) are like stars in the sky; and he who would drink from it would never feel thirsty after that. Asma', daughter of Abu Bakr said: Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) said: I would be on the Cistern so that I would be seeing those who would be coming to me from you, but some people would be detained (before reaching me). I would say: My Lord, they are my followers and belong to my Ummah, and it would be said to me: Do you know what they did after you? By Allah, they did not do good after you, and they turned back upon their heels. He (the narrator) said: lbn Abu Mulaika used to say (in supplication): O Allah, I seek refuge with Thee that we should turn back upon our heels or put to any trial about our religion 
2301 a| b
2| 5990 | Thauban reported Allah's Apostle (ﷺ) as saying:I would be pushing back from my Cistern the crowd of people. I would strike away from it (the Cistern) with my staff the people of Yemen until the water (of the Haud) would spout forth upon them. He was asked about its breadth. He said: From this place of mine to 'Amman, and he was asked about the drink and he said: It is whiter than milk and sweeter than honey. There would spout into it two streamlets having their sources in Paradise. the one is from gold and the other is from silver. This hadith has been narrated on the authority of Hisham with the same chain of transmitters and the words are:" I would be on the Day of Resurrection near the bank of the Cistern 
2310 a| 2309 e
2| 6015 | Anas reported that Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) had the best disposition amongst people. He sent me on an errand one day, and I said:By Allah, I would not go. I had, however, this idea in my mind that I would do as Allah's Apostle (ﷺ) had commanded me to do. I went out until I happened to come across children who had been playing in the street. In the meanwhile, Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) came there and he caught me by the back of my neck from behind me. As I looked towards him I found him smiling and he said: Unais, did you go where I commanded you to go? I said: Allah's Messenger, yes, I am going. Anas further said: I served him for nine years but I know not that he ever said to me about a thing which I had done why I did that, or about a thing I had left as to why I had not done that 
2386 a| b
2| 6179 | Muhammad b. Jubair b. Mut'im reported on the authority of his father that a woman asked Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) about something but lit, told her to come to him on some other occasion, whereupon she said:What in your opinion (should I do) if I come to you but do not find you, and it seemed as if she meant that he might die. Thereupon he said: If you do not find me, then come to Abu Bakr. This hadith has been narrated on the authority of Jubair b. Mut'im through another chain of transmitters (and the words are) that a woman came to Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) and discussed with him something and he gave a command as we find in the above-mentioned narration 
2395 a| b
2| 6200 | Abu Huraira reported Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) as saying:While I was asleep I saw myself in Paradise and a woman performing ablution by the side of a palace. I said: For whom is it meant? They said: It is meant for 'Umar b. Khattab. (The Holy Prophet) said: There came across my mind the feeling of Umar and so I turned back and went away. Abu Huraira said: 'Umar wept as we were present in that meeting with Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) amongst us and Umar said: Allah's Messenger, may my father and mother be taken as ransom for you. Could I at all feel any jealousy about you? This hadith has been narrated on the authority of Ibn Shihab with the same chain of transmitters 
2502| 2503
2| 6410 | Abu Musa reported:We were in Yemen when we heard of the migration of Allah's Messenger (ﷺ). We also set out as immigrants to him. And I was accompanied by two brothers of mine, I being the youngest of them; one of them was Abu Burda and the other one was Abu Ruhm, and there were some other persons with them. Some say they were fifty-three or fifty-two persons of my tribe. We embarked upon a boat, and the boat sailed away to the Negus of Abyssinia. There we met Ja'far b. Abu Talib and his companions. Ja'far said: Allall's Messenger (ﷺ) has sent us here and has commanded us to stay here and you should also stay with us. So we stayed with him and we came back (to Medina) and met Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) when Khaibar had been conquered. He (the Holy Prophet) allocated a share to us and in the ordinary course he did not allocate the share to one who had been absent on the occasion of the conquest of Khaibar but conferred (a share) upon him only who had been present there with him. He, however, made an exception for the people of the boat, viz. for Ja'far and his companions. He allocated a share to them, and some persons from amongst the people said to us, viz. the people of the boat: We have preceded you in migration. Asma' bint 'Umais who had migrated to Abyssinia and had come back along with them (along with immigrants) visited Hafsa, the wife of Allah's Apostle (ﷺ). (Accordingly), Umar had been sitting with her (Hafsa). As 'Umar saw Asma, he said: Who is she? She (Hafsa) said: She is Asma, daughter of 'Umais. He said: She is an Abyssinian and a sea-woman. Asma said: Yes, it is so. Thereupon 'Umar said: We preceded you in migration and so we have more right to Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) as compared with you. At this she felt annoyed and said: 'Umar, you are not stating the fact; by Allah, you had the privilege of being in the company of the Messenger (ﷺ) who fed the hungry among you and instructed the ignorant amongst you, whereas we had been far (from here) in the land of Abyssinia amongst the enemies and that was all for Allah and Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) and, by Allah, I would never take food nor take water unless I make a mention to Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) of what you have said. We remained in that country in constant trouble and dread and I shall talk about it to Allah's Messenger (way peace be upon him) and ask him (about it). By Allah, I shall not tell a lie and deviate (from the truth) and add anything to that. So, when Allah's Apostle (ﷺ) came, she said: Allah's Apostle, 'Umar says so and so. Upon this Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) said: His right is not more than yours, for him and his companions there is one migration, but for you, i. e. for the people of the boat, there are two migrations. She said: I saw Abu Musa and the people of the boat coming to me in groups and asking me about this hadith, because there was nothing more pleasing and more significant for them than this. Abu Burda reported that Asma said: I saw Abu Musa, asking me to repeat this hadith to him again and again 
2506 a| b
2| 6414 | Zaid b. Arqam reported that Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) said:O Allah,, grant forgiveness to the Ansar, the offspring of the Ansar and the offspring of the offspring of the Ansar. This hadith has been narrated on the authority of Shulba with the same chain of transmitters 
2549 b| c
2| 6505 | This hadith has been narrated on the authority of Habib with the several chains of transmitters 
2565 a| b
2| 6544 | Abu Huraira reported Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) as saying:The gates of Paradise are not opened but on two days, Monday and Thursday. and then every servant (of Allah) is granted pardon who does not associate anything with Allah except the person in whose (heart) there is rancour against his brother. And it would be said: Look towards both of them until there is reconciliation; look toward both of them until there is reconciliation; look towards both of them until there is reconciliation. This hadith has been narrated on the authority of Suhail who narrated it on the authority of his father with the chain of transmitters of MaIik, but with this variation of wording:, (Those would not be granted pardon) who bycott each other 
2602 c| d
2| 6625 | Jabir b. Abdullah reported Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) as saying:I am a human being and I have made this term with my Lord, the Exalted and Glorious: For any servant amongst Muslims whom I curse or scold, make that a source of purity and reward. This hadith has been narrated on the authority of Ibn Juraij with the same chain of transmitters 
2639 b| c
2| 6711 | Anas reported that a person said to Allah's Messenger (ﷺ):When would be the Last Hour? He (the Holy Prophet) said: What preparation have you made for that? And he gave no details, but said: I love Allah and His Messenger. Thereupon he (the Holy Prophet) said: You would be along with one whom you love. Anas b. Malik reported through another chain of transmitters that a desert Arab came to Allah's Messenger (may peace be upon, him), the rest of the hadith is the same but with this variation that he said: I have not made much preparations which merit appreciation for myself 
2700 a| b
2| 6855 | (Agharr Abi Muslim reported:I bear witness to the fact that both Abu Huraira and Abu Sa'id Khudri were present when Allah's Messenger may peace be upon him) said: The people do not sit but they are surrounded by angels and covered by Mercy, and there descends upon them tranquillity as they remember Allah, and Allah makes a mention of them to those who are near Him. This hadith has been narrated on the authority of Shu'ba with the same chain of transmitters 
2708 b| 2709 a
2| 6879 | Khaula bint Hakim Sulamiyya reported:I heard Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) as saying: When any one of you stays at a place, he should say:" I seek refuge in the Perfect Word of Allah from the evil of that He created." Nothing would then do him any harm until he moves from that place. Abu Huraira reported that a person came to Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) and said:" Allah's Messenger, I was stung by a scorpion during the night. Thereupon he said: Had you recited these words in the evening:" I seek refuge in the Perfect Word of Allah from the evil of what He created," it would not have done any harm to you 
2728 a| b
2| 6918 | Abu Huraira reported that Fatima came to Allah's Apostle (ﷺ) and asked for a servant and told him of the hardship of household work. He said:You would not be able to get a servant from us. May I not direct you to what is better than the servant for you? Recite Subhaana Allah thirty-three times, al- Hamdu li-Allah thirty-three times and Allah-o-Akbar thirty-four times as you go to bed. This hadith has been narrated on the authority of Suhail with the same chain of transmitters 
2733| 2732 c
2| 6929 | Safwan (and he was Ibn 'Abdullah b. Safwan, and he had been married to Umm Darda') reported:I visited Abu Darda's house in Syria. I did not find him there but Umm Darda' (was present at the house). She said: Do you intend to perform Hajj during this year? I said: Yes. She said: Do supplicate Allah for blessings upon us, for Allah's Apostle (may peace be upon hiin) used to say: The supplication of a Muslim for his brother at his back (in his absence) is responded so long as he makes a supplica- tion for blessings for his brother and the commissioned Angel says: Amen, and says: May it be for you too I I went to the bazar and met Abfi Dardi' and he narrated like this from Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) 
2747 b| c
2| 6961 | Anas b. Malik reported that Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) said:Allah is more pleased with the repentance of His servant than if one of you gets up and he finds his camel missing in a waterless desert (and then he accidentally finds it). This hadith has been narrated on the authority of Anas b. Malik through another chain of transmitters 
2756 b| 2619 b
2| 6981 | Abu Huraira reported Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) as saying that a person committed sin beyond measure and when he was going to die, he left this will:(When I die), bum my dead body and then cast them (the ashes) to the wind and in the ocean. By Allah, if my Lord takes hold of me, He would torment me as He has not tormented anyone else. They did as he had asked them to do. He (the Lord) said to the earth: Return what you have taken. And he was thus restored to his (original form). He (Allah) said to him: What prompted you to do this? He said: My Lord, it was Thine fear or Thine awe, and Allah pardoned him because of this. Abu Huraira reported Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) as saying that a woman was thrown into Hell-Fire because of a cat whom she had tied and did not provide it with food. nor did she set it free to eat vermin of the earth until it died emaciated. Az-Zuhri said: (These two ahadith) show that a person should neither feel confident (of getting into Paradise) because of his deeds, nor should he lose (all hopes) of getting into Paradise 
2759 a| b
2| 6989 | Abu Musa reported Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) as saying that Allah, the Exalted and Glorious, Stretches out His Hand during the night so that the people may repent for the fault committed from dawn till dusk and He stretches out His Hand during the day so that the people may repent for the fault committed from dusk to dawn. (He would accept repentance) before the sun rises in the west (before the Day of Resurrection). A hadith like this has been narrated on the authority of Shu'ba with the same chain of transmitters 
2769 a| b
2| 7017 | Ibn Shihab reported that Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) made an expedition to Tabuk and he (the Holy Prophet) had in his mind (the idea of threatening the) Christians of Arabia in Syria and those of Rome. Ibn Shihab (further) reported that 'Abd al-Rahman b. 'Abdullah b. Ka'b informed him that Abdullah b. Ka'b who served as the guide of Ka'b b. 'Malik as he became blind that he heard Ka'b b. Malik narrate the story of his remaining behind Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) from the Battle of Tabuk. Ka'b b. Malik said:I never remained behind Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) from any expedition which he undertook except the Battle of Tabuk and that of the Battle of Badr. So far as the Battle of Badr is concerned, nobody was blamed for remaining behind as Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) and the Muslims (did not set out for attack but for waylaying) the caravan of the Quraish, but it was Allah Who made them confront their enemies without their intention (to do so). I had the honour to be with Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) on the night of 'Aqaba when we pledged our allegiance to Islam and it was more dear to me than my participation in the Battle of Badr, although Badr was more popular amongst people as compared with that (Tabuk). And this is my story of remaining back from Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) on the occasion of the Battle of Tabuk. Never did I possess means enough and (my circumstances) more favourable than at the occasion of this expedition. And, by Allah, I had never before this expedition simultaneously in my possession two rides. Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) set out for this expedition in extremely hot season; the journey was long and the land (which he and his army had to cover) was waterless and he had to confront a large army, so he informed the Muslims about the actual situation (they had to face), so that they should adequately equip themselves for this expedition, and he also told them the destination where he intended to go. And the Muslims who accompanied Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) at that time were large in numbers but there was no proper record of them. Ka'b (further) said: Few were the persons who wanted to absent themselves, and were under the impression that they could easily conceal themselves (and thus remain undetected) until revelations from Allah, the Exalted and Glorious (descended in connection with them). And Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) set out on an expedition when the fruits were ripe and their shadows had been lengthened. I had weakness for them and it was during this season that Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) made preparations and the Muslims too along with them. I also set out in the morning so that I should make preparations along with them but I came back and did nothing and said to myself: I have means enough (to make preparations) as soon as I like. And I went on doing this (postponing my preparations) until people were about to depart and it was in the morning that Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) set out and the Muslims too along with him, but I made no preparations. I went early in the morning and came back, but I made no decision. I continued to do so until they (the Muslims) hastened and covered a good deal of distance. I also made up my mind to march on and to meet them. Would that I had done that but perhaps it was not destined for me. After the departure of Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) as I went out amongst people, I was shocked to find that I did not find anyone like me but people who were labelled as hypocrites or the people whom Allah granted exemption because of their incapacity and Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) took no notice of me until he had reached Tabuk. (One day as he was sitting amongst the people in Tabuk) he said: What has happened to Ka'b b. Malik? A person from Banu' Salama said: Allah's Messenger, the (beauty) of his cloak and his appreciation of his sides have allured him and he was thus detained. Mua'dh b. Jabal said: Woe be upon that what you contend. Allah's Messenger, by Allah, we know nothing about him but good. Allah's Messenger (ﷺ), however, kept quiet. It was during that time that he (the Holy Prophet) saw a person (dressed in all white (garment) shattering the illusion of eye (mirage). Thereupon Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) said: May he be Abu Khaithama and, lo, it was Abu Khaithama al-Ansari and he was that person who contributed a sa' of dates and was scoffed at by the hypocrites. Ka'b b. Malik farther said: When this news reached me that Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) was on his way back from Tabuk I was greatly perturbed. I thought of fabricating false stories and asked myself how I would save myself from his anger on the following day. In this connection, I sought the help of every prudent man from amongst the members of my family and when it was said to me that Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) was about to arrive, all the false ideas banished (from my mind) and I came to the conclusion that nothing could save me but the telling of truth, so I decided to speak the truth and it was in the morning that Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) arrived (in Medina). And it was his habit that as he came back from a journey he first went to the mosque and observed two Rak'ahs of nafl prayer (as a mark of gratitude) and then sat amongst people. And as he did that, those who had remained behind him began to put forward their excuses and take an oath before him and they were more than eighty persons. Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) accepted their excuses on the very face of them and accepted their allegiance and sought forgiveness for them and left their secret (intentions) to Allah, until I presented myself to him. I greeted him and he smiled and there was a tinge of anger in that. He (the Holy Prophet) then said to me: Come forward. I went forward until I sat in front of him. He said to me: What kept you back? Could you not afford to go in for a ride? I said: Allah's Messenger, by Allah, if I were to sit in the presence of anybody else from amongst the worldly people I would have definitely saved myself from his anger on one pretext (or the other) and I have also the knack to fall into argumentation, but, by Allah, I am fully aware of the fact that if I were to put forward before you a false excuse to please you Allah would definitely provoke your wrath upon me, and if I speak the truth you may be annoyed with me, but I hope that Allah would make its end well and, by Allah, there is no valid excuse for me. By Allah, I never possessed so good means, and I never had such favourable conditions for me as I had when I stayed behind you (failed to join the expedition). Thereupon, Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) said: This man told the truth, so get up until Allah gives a decision in your case. I stood up and some people of Banu' Salama followed me in hot haste, and they said to me: By Allah, we do not know about you that you committed a sin prior to this. You, however, showed inability to put forward an excuse before Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) as those who stayed behind him have put forward excuses. It would have been enough for the forgiveness of your sin that Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) would have sought forgiveness for you. By Allah, they continued to incite me until I thought of going back to Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) and contradict myself. Then I said to them: Has anyone else also met the same fate? They said: Yes, two persons have met the same fate as has fallen to you and they have made the sane statement as you have made, and the same verdict has been delivered in their case as it has been delivered in your case. I said: Who are they? They said: Murara b. ar-Rabi'a 'Amiri and Hilal b. Umayya al-Waqafi. They made a mention of these two pious persons to me who had participated in the Battle of Badr and there was an example for me in them. I went away when they named these two persons. Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) forbade the Nluslims to talk with three of us from amongst those (persons) who had stayed behind him. The people began to avoid us and their attitude towards us underwent a change and it seemed as if the whole atmosphere had turned (hostile) against us and it was in fact the same atmosphere ot which I was fully aware and in which I had lived (for a fairly long time). We spent fifty nights in this very state and my two friends confined themselves withen their houses and spent (most of the) time in weeping, but as I was young and strong amongst them I got (out of my house), participated in congregational prayers, moved about in the bazar; but none spoke to me. I came to Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) as he sat amongst (people) after the prayer, greeted him and asked myself whether his lips stirred in response to my greetings (or not). Then I observed prayer beside him and looked at him with stealing glances and when I attended to my prayer, he looked at me and when I cast a glance at him he turned away his eyes from me. And when the harsh treatment of the Muslims towards me extended to a (considerable) length of time, I walked until I climbed upon the wall of the garden of Abu Qatada, and he was my cousin, and I had the greatest love for him. I greeted him but, by Allah, he did not respond to my greetings. I said to him: Abu Qatada, I adjure you by Allah, arn't you well aware of the fact that I love Allah and His Messenger (ﷺ) the most. He kept quiet. I again repeated saying: I adjure you by Allah. arn't you well aware of the fact that I love Allah and His Messenger (ﷺ) the most. He kept quiet. I again adjured him, whereupon he said: Allah and the Messenger (ﷺ) are best aware of it. My eyes began to shed tears and I came back climbing down from the wall and as I was walking in the bazar of Medina a Nabatean from amongst the Nabateans of Syria, who had come to sell foodgrains in Medina, asked people to direct him to Ka'b b. Malik. People gave him the indication by pointing towards me. He came to me and delivered to me a letter of the King of Ghassan and as I was a scribe I read that letter and it was written like this:" Coming to my point, it has been conveyed to us that your friend (the Holy Prophet) is subjecting you to cruelty and Allah has not created you for a place where you are to be degraded and where you cannot find your right place, so you come to us that we should accord you honour. As I read that letter I said: This is also a calamity, so I burnt it in the oven. When out of the fifty days, forty days had passed and Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) received no revelation, there came the messenger of Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) to me and said: Verily, Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) has commanded you to remain separate from your wife. I said: Should I divorce her or what (else) should I do? He said: No, but only remain separate from her and don't have sexual contact with her. The same message was sent to my companions. So I said to my wife: You better go to your parents and stay there with them until Allah gives the decision in my case. The wife of Hilal b. Umayya came to Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) and said: Allah's Messenger, Hilal b. Umayya is a senile person, he has no servant. Do you disapprove of my serving him? He said: No, but don't go near him. She said: By Allah, he has no such instinct in him. By Allah, he spends his time in weeping from that day to this day. Some of the members of my family said to me: Were you to seek permission from Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) in regard to your wife as he has granted permission to the wife of Hilal b. Umayya to serve him. I said: I would not seek permission from Allah's Messenger (ﷺ), for I cannot say what Allah's Apostle may say in response to seeking my permission. Moreover, I am a young man. It was in this state that I spent ten more nights and thus fifty nights had passed that (people) had observed boycott with us. It was on the morning of the fiftieth night that I observed my dawn prayer and was sitting on one of the roofs of our houses. And I was in fact sitting in that very state which Allah, the Exalted and Glorious, has described about us in these words:" Life had become hard for myself and the earth had compressed despite its vastness," that I heard the noise of an announcer from the peak of the hill of Sal' saying at the top of his voice: Ka'b b. Malik, there is glad tidings for you. I fell down in prostration and came to realise that there was (a message of) relief for me. Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) had informed the people of the acceptance of our repentance by Allah as he offered the dawn prayer. So the people went on to give us glad tidings and some of them went to my friends in order to give them the glad tidings and a person galloped his horse and came from the tribe of Aslam and his horse reached me more quickly than his voice. And when he came to me whose sound I heard, he gave me the glad tidings. I took off my clothes and clothed him with them because of his bringing good news to me and, by Allah, I possessed nothing else (in the form of clothes) than these two on that occasion, and I asked one to lend me two clothes and dressed myself in them. I came to Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) and on my way I met groups of people who greeted me because of (the acceptance of) repentance and they said: Here is a greeting for you for your repentance being accepted by Allah. (I moved on) until I came to the mosque and Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) had been sitting there amongst persons. So Talha b. 'Ubaidullah got up and rushed towards me and he shook hands with me and greeted me and, by Allah, no person stood up (to greet me) from amongst the emigrants except he. Ka'b said that he never forgot (this good gesture of) Talha. Ka'b further said: I greeted Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) with Assalam-o-'Alaikam and his face was glistening because of delight, and he said: Let there be glad tidings and blessings for you, the like of which (you have neither found nor you will find, as you find today) since your mother gave your birth. I said: Allah's Messenger. is this acceptance of repentance from you or from Allah? He said: No, (it is not from ma), it is from Allah, and it was common with Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) that as he was happy his face brightened up and it looked like a part of the moon and it was from this that we recognised it (his delight). As I sat before him, I said: Allah's Messenger, am I allowed to give in charity my wealth for Allah's sake and for the sake of His Messenger (ﷺ)? Thereupon Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) said: Keep some property with you as it is better for you. I said: I shall keep with me that part (of my property) which fell to my lot (on the occasion of the expedition of) Khaibar. I said: Allah's Messenger, verily, Allah has granted me salvation because of truth and, therefore, (I think) that repentance implies that I should not speak anything but truth as long as I live. He said: By Allah, I do not know whether anyone amongst the Muslims was put to more severe trial than I by Allah because of telling the truth. And since I made a mention of this to Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) up to this day I have not told any lie and, by Allah, I have decided not to tell a lie and I hope that Allah would save me (from trials) for the rest of my life and Allah, the Exalted and Glorious, revealed these verses:" Certainly, Allah has turned in Mercy to the Prophet and the emigrants and the helpers who followed him in the hour of hardship after the hearts of a part of them were about to deviate; then He turned to them in mercy. Surely, to them He is Compassionate, Merciful and (He turned in Mercy) to the three who were left behind until the earth despite its vastness became strait for them and their souls were also straitened to them." And this revelation reached up to the (words):" O you who believe, develop God consciousness, and be with the truthful" (ix. 117-118). Ka'b said: By Allah, since Allah directed me to Islam there has been no blessing more significant for me than this truth of mine which I spoke to Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) and if I were to tell a lie I would have been ruined as were ruined those who told lies, for in regard to those who told lies Allah used harshest words used for anyone as He descended revelation (and the words of Allah are):" They will swear by Allah to you when you return to them so that you may leave them alone. So leave them alone. Surely, they are unclean and their resort is Hell, recompense for what they earned. They will swear to you that you may be pleased with them but if you are pleased with them, yet surely Allah is not pleased with the transgressing people" (ix. 95-96). K'ab said that the matter of us three persons was deferred as compared with those who took an oath in the presence of Allahs Messenger (ﷺ) and he accepted their allegiance and sought forgiveness for them and Allah did not give any decision in regard to us. It was Allah, the Exalted and Glorious, Who gave decisions in our case, three who remained behind. (The words of the Qur'an)" the three who were left behind" do not mean that we remained back from Jihad but these imply that He kept our matter behind them who took oath and presented excuse before Him. This hadith has been narrated on the authority of Zuhri with the same chain of transmitters 
2802 a| b
2| 7076 | Anas reported that the people of Mecca demanded from Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) that he should show them (some) signs (miracles) and he showed twice the splitting of the moon. This hadlth has been narrated on the authority of Anas through another chain of transmitters 
2804 a| b
2| 7080 | Abu Musa reported that Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) said:There is none to show more patience at listening to the most irksome things than Allah, the Exalted and Glorious. 'Partnership is associated to Him (polytheism), and (fatherhood) of a child is attributed to Him, but in spite of this He protects them (people) and provides them sustenance.' This hadith has been transmitted on the authority of Abu Musa with a slight variation of wording 
2816 a| b
2| 7111 | Abu Huraira reported Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) as saying:None amongst you would attain salvation purely because of his deeds. A person said: Allah's Messenger, even you? Thereupon he said: Yes, not even I except that Allah wraps me in Mercy, but you should act with moderation. This hadith has been transmitted on the authority of Bukair b. al-Ashajj with a slight variation of wording 
2827| 2828
2| 7138 | Sahl b. Sa'd reported Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) as saying:In Paradise, there is a tree under the shadow of which a rider can travel for a hundred years without covering (the distance) completely. This hadith has also been transmitted on the authority of Abu Sa'id al-Khudri that Allah's Apostle (ﷺ) is reported to have said: In Paradise, there is a tree under the shadow of which a rider of a fine and swift-footed horse would travel for a hundred years without covering the distance completely. There would be the pleasure of Allah for the inmates of Paradise and He would never be annoyed with them 
2830| 2831 a
2| 7141 | Sahl b. Sa'd reported Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) as saying:The inmates of Paradise will look to the upper apartment of Paradise as you see the planets in the sky. I narrated this hadith to Nu'man b. Abi 'Ayyash and he said: I heard Abu Sa'id al-Khudri as saying: As you see the shining planets in the eastern and western (sides of) horizon 
2930 a| 2931| 169 d
3| 7354 | Abdullah b. Umar reported:'Umar b. Khattab went along with Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) in the company of some persons to Ibn Sayyad that he found him playing with children near the battlement of Bani Maghala and Ibn Sayyad was at that time just at the threshold of adolescence and he did not perceive (the presence of Holy Prophet) until Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) struck his back with his hands. Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) said: Ibn Sayyad, don't you bear witness that I am the messenger of Allah? Ibn Sayyad looked toward him and he said: I bear witness to the fact that you the messenger of the unlettered. Ibn Sayyad said to the Allah's Messenger (ﷺ): Do you bear witness to the fact that I am the messenger of Allah? Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) rejected this and said: I affirm my faith in Allah and in His messengers. Then Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) said to him: What do you see? Ibn Sayyad said: It is a Dukh. Thereupon Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) said: May you be disgraced and dishonoured, you would not not be able to go beyond your rank. 'Umar b. Khattab said: Allah's Messenger, permit me that I should strike his neck. Thereupon Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) said: If he is the same (Dajjal) who would appear near the Last Hour, you would not be able to overpower him, and if he is not that there is no good for you to kill him. 'Abdullah b. 'Umar further narrated that after some time Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) and Ubayy b. Ka'b went towards the palm trees where Ibn Sayyad was. When Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) went near the tree he hid himself behind a tree with the intention of hearing something from Ibn sayyad before Ibn Sayyad could see him, but Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) saw him on a bed with a blanket around him from which a murmuring sound was being heard and Ibn Sayyad's mother saw Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) behind the trunk of the palm tree. She said to Ibn Sayyad: Saf (that being his name), here is Muhammad. Thereupon Ibn Sayyad jumped up murmuring and Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) said: If she had left him alone he would have made things clear. Abdullah b. Umar told that Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) stood up amongst the people and lauded Allah as He deserved, then he made a mention of the Dajjal and said: I warn you of him and there is no Prophet who has not warned his people against the Dajjal. Even Noah warned (against him) but I am going to tell you a thing which no Prophet told his people. You must know that he (the Dajjal) is one-eyed and Allah, the Exalted and Glorious, is not one-eyed. Ibn Shihab said: 'Umar b. Thabit al-Ansari informed me that some of the Companions of Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) informed him that the day when Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) warned people against the Dajjal, he also said: There would be written between his two eyes (the word) Kafir (infidel) and everyone who would resent his deeds would be able to read or every Muslim would be about to read, and he also said: Bear this thing in mind that none amongst you would be able to see Allah, the Exalted and Glorious, until he dies 
2998 a| b
2| 7498 | Abu Huraira reported that Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) said:The believer does not allow to be stung twice from one (and the same) hole. This hadith has been narrated on the authority of Abu Huraira through another chain of transmitters 
884 b| c
2| 2045 | Ibn 'Abbas reported:I bear testimony to the Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) offering prayer before Kbutba. He (after saying prayer) delivered the Kutba, and he found that the women could not hear it, so he came to them and exhorted them and preached them and commanded them to give alms, and Bilal had stretched his cloth and the women were throwing rings, earrings and other things. This hadith has been narrated on the authority of Ayyub with the same chain of transmitters 
884 d| e
2| 2057 | Ibn 'Abbas reported that the Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) went out on the day of Adha or Fitr and observed two rak'ahs, and did not observe prayer (at that place) before and after that. He then came to the women along with Bilal and commanded them to give alms and the women began to give their rings and necklaces. This hadith has been narrated on the authority of Shu'ba with the same chain of transmitter 